192 roras,

873. malo loqui, “ revile.'’

87111110 tendent “ Do yon, too, say 1” Ita praedicant:
Pamphilus knows better than to venture the assertion on his
own authority. ³

811-881. Simo's angry grief is now so uncontrolled that he
abandons the direct second person and apostrophizes Pamphilus
in thc third person, as though be could not bear to speak to

him any longer. Comp. Dido's denunciatiou ot' Aeneas (Verg.
Aen. IV. 369, 379);

ittam fleta inperauit nostro? 111111111111 flend?

Ν1111 lacrimas 0111111 dedit, 111 miseratus 1111111111 cet?

882. 110 miserum is an expression os real sorrow on the part
of Pamphilus. Comp. petris pudor (262) in reference to Pam-
philus's regard for his father. Hem (as Simo hears mamistram)
recalls him to address Pamphilus dircetly. id: te 1111111111 ease.

889-881. 911111 istuc, olim: Simo expande 111111 in explicit
fashion in 883, 884. 884 is the development 01110, 883. Sharp·
ening 11111 into 1011111111(885),111 then takes up 11111 (883)
again in 11111 certam (885). istuc uerbum is the “miseram 1111”
01 the hapless Pamphilus, and Simo is “rubbing it in '³ witha
vengcanee.

886-889. After his temporary digression (sea-885) Simo re·
sirmes his apostrophe-this time to himself and a little less
passionately. ualeat: See 696. Pamphilus in his dismay faint-
ly ventures mi pater.

899. huius putris, “ mc as your fatlrerr’

891. liberi: The plural hore reserato the relationship ab
shortly, without reference to the number· of children. Comp.
the legal definitior iu tho “Digest” (Ι. 16.148); ace est 11111
11111111111111111111111111111111. ’

899. The imputation of bringing false witnesses to prove Gly-
cerium's citizenship is more than Pamphilus can bear. So he
breaks in with poter, licetne pauco.

894, 891. Chremes is the one who has tho best right 1ο inter-
fere in behalf of Pamphilus, in view of Simo's previous unusual
1111110111 in sacrifieing the grovest iuterests 01 his daughter.

896. From bere to 929 trochaic septenarii.

899. 1111 modo, “this only.'‘ adlegarem, “brought sora
purpose‚’‘ “instigratecl.”

991. Sino: Pamphilus hurries 01110 fetch Crito from the house
of Glycerium. ’

 

